README.md, before:

# dactyl-34-v1

modification of pro-micro dactyl v0 adjusted for the 34keys

## info how for custom shift

<https://getreuer.info/posts/keyboards/custom-shift-keys/index.html>

## another approach derived from miryoku (Prefered)

<https://peppe.rs/posts/programming_on_34_keys/>

## list of default keycodes

<https://docs.qmk.fm/#/keycodes_basic>

## home row mod article

<https://precondition.github.io/home-row-mods>

## other resources

### ben vallack using another interesting concept of tap dance TD()

<https://github.com/benvallack/34-QMK-Ferris-Sweep/blob/main/keymap.c>

## repository files overivew

- zmk-config/boards/shileds/popup
  - Kconfig.defconf *general name and split setup*
  - Kconfig.shield *decision if left or ringht*
  - dusk.conf *only sleep option*
  - popup.dtsi *rows and map*
  - popup.keymap *keymap*
  - popup.zmk.yml *config*
  - popup_left.conf *dummy empty*
  - popup_left.overlay *column mapping*
  - popup_right.conf *dummy empty*
  - popup_right.overlay column mapping

## preparing docker

### preparing files

```nu
# rm -rf ./workspace
mkdir ./workspace/zmk-config/

#cp -ruv ./zmk/src/zmk-config/ ./workspace/
cp -ruv ./zmk/ci/ ./workspace/
```

### run initial setup

```nu
(docker run -it -v
 ./workspace:/workspace
 zmkfirmware/zmk-build-arm:3.5
 /bin/bash /workspace/ci/init.sh
)
```

#### rebuilding only firmware changes

- when doing changes in copying repeat copying source code part and repeat steps starting with build

```nu
cp -rfv ./zmk/src/zmk-config/config ./workspace/zmk-config/config
```

### build parts

```nu
(docker run -it -v
 ./workspace:/workspace
 zmkfirmware/zmk-build-arm:3.5
 /bin/bash /workspace/ci/build.sh
)
```

### deploying firmware

- connect keyboard with usb
- add keyboard to flash mode in case of nano or arduino it's double-click reset
- *manually mount nano in f.e. thunnar*
- flash with build firmwares

```nu
mkdir ./nano
sudo mount -t vfat -o 'rw,nosuid,nodev,relatime,uid=1000,gid=1000,fmask=0022,dmask=0022,codepage=437,iocharset=ascii,shortname=mixed,showexec,utf8,flush,errors=remount-ro,uhelper=udisks2' /dev/sda $"('./nano' | path expand)"
```

```nu
sudo cp $"('./workspace/output/popup_right.uf2' | path expand)" $"('./nano' | path expand)"
sudo umount /dev/sda
```

```nu
sudo cp $"('./workspace/output/popup_left.uf2' | path expand)" $"('./nano' | path expand)"
sudo umount /dev/sda
```

*** manually mounted

```nu
cp ./workspace/output/popup_left.uf2 /run/media/jan/NICENANO/
```

```nu
cp ./workspace/output/popup_right.uf2 /run/media/jan/NICENANO/
```

### mounting keyboard

ensure `xorg-xinput` installed
tbd wayland config

nu query to extract id

```nu
let keyboard_id = (
 xinput list 
 | lines
 | where ($it =~ 'Pop-Up') 
 | where ($it =~ 'keyboard') 
 | split row -r '\s+' 
 | where ($it =~ 'id=') 
 | split row '=' 
 | get 1
)

setxkbmap -device $keyboard_id -layout us
```

#### get id of the manually

```nu
#list connected devices
xinput list

#output list in the output is id 17 where slave keyboard
#> Virtual core pointer
#> ...
#> ↳ ZMK Project Pop-Up Keyboard id=14 [slave pointer (2)]
#> Virtual core keyboard
#> ...
#> ↳ ZMK Project Pop-Up Keyboard id=17 [slave keyboard (3)]

setxbmap -device 17 -layout us
```

## install docker manjaro/arch pacman

```nu

sudo pacman -Syu
sudo pacman -S docker
sudo systemctl enable docker.service
sudo systemctl start docker.service
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER

```

# Appendix local approach notes

## installing zmk

```ps1
powershell -Command "iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://zmk.dev/setup.ps1'))"
```

```bash
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://zmk.dev/setup.sh)"
```

pick 40) Kyria Rev v3 [details](https://zmk.dev/docs/hardware#composite)
pick 10) nice!nano v2

## zmk prerequisites

```bash
scoop install cmake
```

## installing zmk dev

```bash
git clone https://github.com/zmkfirmware/zmk.git
cd zmk
python -m venv .venv
```

> [!NOTE]
> nushell venv not supported windows workaround

```bash

powershell
.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
nu

```

## updating environment

```bash

pip install west
west init -l app/
west update
west zephyr-export
# additional dependecies
pip install -r zephyr/scripts/requirements-base.txt

```

## building

```bash

cp -r

```

## wsl

```bash

wsl -d Ubuntu-zmk -u jan
west build -s . -b nice_nano_v2 -- -DZMK_CONFIG=/workspace/zmk-config/config/ -DSHIELD=popup-left

```

Commit message:

adding unbond reset rom build

README.md, after:

# dactyl-34-v1

modification of pro-micro dactyl v0 adjusted for the 34keys

## info how for custom shift

<https://getreuer.info/posts/keyboards/custom-shift-keys/index.html>

## another approach derived from miryoku (Prefered)

<https://peppe.rs/posts/programming_on_34_keys/>

## list of default keycodes

<https://docs.qmk.fm/#/keycodes_basic>

## home row mod article

<https://precondition.github.io/home-row-mods>

## other resources

### ben vallack using another interesting concept of tap dance TD()

<https://github.com/benvallack/34-QMK-Ferris-Sweep/blob/main/keymap.c>

## repository files overivew

- zmk-config/boards/shileds/popup
  - Kconfig.defconf *general name and split setup*
  - Kconfig.shield *decision if left or ringht*
  - dusk.conf *only sleep option*
  - popup.dtsi *rows and map*
  - popup.keymap *keymap*
  - popup.zmk.yml *config*
  - popup_left.conf *dummy empty*
  - popup_left.overlay *column mapping*
  - popup_right.conf *dummy empty*
  - popup_right.overlay column mapping

## preparing docker

### preparing files

```nu
# rm -rf ./workspace
mkdir ./workspace/zmk-config/

#cp -ruv ./zmk/src/zmk-config/ ./workspace/
cp -ruv ./zmk/ci/ ./workspace/
```

### run initial setup

```nu
(docker run -it -v
 ./workspace:/workspace
 zmkfirmware/zmk-build-arm:3.5
 /bin/bash /workspace/ci/init.sh
)
```

#### rebuilding only firmware changes

- when doing changes in copying repeat copying source code part and repeat steps starting with build

```nu
cp -rfv ./zmk/src/zmk-config/config ./workspace/zmk-config/config
```

### build parts

```nu
(docker run -it -v
 ./workspace:/workspace
 zmkfirmware/zmk-build-arm:3.5
 /bin/bash /workspace/ci/build.sh
)
```

### deploying firmware

- connect keyboard with usb
- add keyboard to flash mode in case of nano or arduino it's double-click reset
- *manually mount nano in f.e. thunnar*
- flash with build firmwares

```nu
mkdir ./nano
sudo mount -t vfat -o 'rw,nosuid,nodev,relatime,uid=1000,gid=1000,fmask=0022,dmask=0022,codepage=437,iocharset=ascii,shortname=mixed,showexec,utf8,flush,errors=remount-ro,uhelper=udisks2' /dev/sda $"('./nano' | path expand)"
```

```nu
sudo cp $"('./workspace/output/popup_right.uf2' | path expand)" $"('./nano' | path expand)"
sudo umount /dev/sda
```

```nu
sudo cp $"('./workspace/output/popup_left.uf2' | path expand)" $"('./nano' | path expand)"
sudo umount /dev/sda
```

*** manually mounted

```nu
cp ./workspace/output/popup_left.uf2 /run/media/jan/NICENANO/
```

```nu
cp ./workspace/output/popup_right.uf2 /run/media/jan/NICENANO/
```

### mounting keyboard

ensure `xorg-xinput` installed
tbd wayland config

set notebook keyboard as dvorak (part of i3 config)
```nu
setxkbmap -device (xinput list --id-only 'keyboard:AT Translated Set 2 keyboard') -layout us -variant dvorak
```

set pop-up keyboard as dvorak
```nu
setxkbmap -device (xinput list --id-only 'keyboard:ZMK Project Pop-Up Keyboard') -layout us -variant qwerty
```

#### get id of the manually

```nu
#list connected devices
xinput list

#output list in the output is id 17 where slave keyboard
#> Virtual core pointer
#> ...
#> ↳ ZMK Project Pop-Up Keyboard id=14 [slave pointer (2)]
#> Virtual core keyboard
#> ...
#> ↳ ZMK Project Pop-Up Keyboard id=17 [slave keyboard (3)]

setxbmap -device 17 -layout us
```

### reset keyboard halves pairing
dual split keyboards are automatically try to pair them selfs when not
yet paired and resetted simultanously this pairing is stored in chip and not overwrite by
flashing new version tu unpair both sides have to be re-flashed by special image and then flashed again with the existing rom this rom is built together with halves

```nu
cp ./workspace/output/settings_reset.uf2 /run/media/jan/NICENANO/
```

## install docker manjaro/arch pacman

```nu

sudo pacman -Syu
sudo pacman -S docker
sudo systemctl enable docker.service
sudo systemctl start docker.service
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER

```

# Appendix local approach notes

## installing zmk

```ps1
powershell -Command "iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://zmk.dev/setup.ps1'))"
```

```bash
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://zmk.dev/setup.sh)"
```

pick 40) Kyria Rev v3 [details](https://zmk.dev/docs/hardware#composite)
pick 10) nice!nano v2

## zmk prerequisites

```bash
scoop install cmake
```

## installing zmk dev

```bash
git clone https://github.com/zmkfirmware/zmk.git
cd zmk
python -m venv .venv
```

> [!NOTE]
> nushell venv not supported windows workaround

```bash

powershell
.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
nu

```

## updating environment

```bash

pip install west
west init -l app/
west update
west zephyr-export
# additional dependecies
pip install -r zephyr/scripts/requirements-base.txt

```

## building

```bash

cp -r

```

## wsl

```bash

wsl -d Ubuntu-zmk -u jan
west build -s . -b nice_nano_v2 -- -DZMK_CONFIG=/workspace/zmk-config/config/ -DSHIELD=popup-left

```
